XXII

Preface

u Includes a quick reference to all C89 and C99 library functions. Appendix

D in the first edition described all C89 standard library functions. In this edi-
tion, the appendix covers all C89 and C99 library functions.

m Expanded coverage of GCC. In the years since the first edition, use of GCC

(originally the GNU C Compiler, now the GNU Compiler Collection) has
spread. GCC has some significant advantages, including high quality, low (ie..
no) cost, and portability across a variety of hardware and software platforms.
In recognition of its growing importance, l’ve included more information about
GCC in this edition, including discussions of how to use it as well as common
GCC error messages and warnings.

= New coverage of abstract data types. In the first edition, a significant portion

of Chapter 19 was devoted to C++. This material seems less relevant today,
since students may already have learned C++, Java, or C# before reading this
book. In this edition, coverage of C++ has been replaced by a discussion of
how to set up abstract data types in C.

Expanded coverage of international features. Chapter 25, which is devoted
to C’s international features, is now much longer and more detailed. Informa-
tion about the Unicode/UCS character set and its encodings is a highlight of
the expanded coverage.

Updated to reflect today’s CPUs and operating systems. When I wrote the
first edition, 16-bit architectures and the DOS operating system were still rele-
vant to many readers, but such is not the case today. l’ve updated the discus-
sion to focus more on 32-bit and 64-bit architectures. The rise of Linux and
other versions of UNIX has dictated a stronger focus on that family of operat-
ing systems, although aspects of Windows and the Mac OS operating system
that affect C programmers are mentioned as well.

m More exercises and programming projects. The first edition of this book con-

tained 311 exercises. This edition has nearly 500 (498, to be exact). divided
into two groups: exercises and programming projects.

Solutions to selected exercises and programming projects. The most frequent
request | received from readers of the first edition was to provide answers to
the exercises. In response to this request, l’ve put the answers to roughly one-
third of the exercises and programming projects on the web at knking.com/
books/c2. This feature is particularly useful for readers who aren’t enrolled in
a college course and need a way to check their work. Exercises and projects
for which answers are provided are marked with a (D icon (the “W”’ stands for
‘“answer available on the Web”).

Password-protected instructor website. For this edition, l’ve built a new in-
structor resource site (accessible through knking.com/books/c2) containing
solutions to the remaining exercises and projects, plus PowerPoint presenta-
tions for most chapters. Faculty may contact me at chook@knking.com for a
password. Please use your campus email address and include a link to your
department’s website so that J can verify your identity.
