iswetype

towlower
itowupper

wctrans

25.6  The <wctype.h> Header (C99) 673

current locale; the 12 strings listed above are legal in all locales. 1f wctype 1s
passed a string that’s not supported in the current locale, 1t returns zero.

À call of the iswctype function requires two parameters: wc (a wide char-
acter) and desc (a value returned by wotype). iswctype returns a nonzero
value rf wc belongs to the class of characters corresponding to desc. For example,
the call

iswctype (wc, wctype ("alnum'") )
is equivalent to
iswalnum (wc)

wctype and iswctype are most useful when the argument to wctype Is à
string other than the standard ones listed above.

Wide-Character Case-Mapping Functions

wint t towlower(wint t wc);
wint t towupper (wint t wc);

The towlower and towupper functions are the wide-character counterparts of
tolower and toupper. For example. towlower returns the lower-case ver-
sion of its argument. if the argument is an upper-case letter; otherwise. it returns
the argument unchanged. As usual. there may be quirks when dcaling with wide
characters. For example, more than one lower-case version of a letter may exist in
the current locale, in which case towlower 1s allowed to return any one of them.

Extensible Wide-Character Case-Mapping Functions

wint t towctrans(wint t wc, wctrans t desc) ;
wctrans t wctrans(const char *property) ;

The wctrans and towctrans functions are used together to support general-
ized wide-character mapping.

The wctrans function is passed a string describing a character mapping: 1t
returns a wctrans_ t value that represents the mapping. For example, the call

wectrans ("tolower")

returns àawctrans t value representing the mapping of upper-case letters to low-
er case. The C99 standard requires that the strings "tolower" and "toupper"
be allowed as arguments to wctrans. Additional strings may be provided by an
implementation. Which strings are legal arguments to wctrans at a given time
depends on the LC CTYPE category of the current locale; "tolower" and
"coupper" are legal in all locales, lf wctrans is passed a string that's not sup-
ported in the current locale, it returns zero.
