14.

15.

16.

|7.

|8.

Programming Projects 313

Modify Programming Project 14 from Chapter 8 so that it stores the words In à (wo-
dimensional char array as it reads the sentence, with cach row of the array storing à sin-
gle word. Assume that the sentence contains no more than 30 words and no word is more
than 20 characters long. Be sure to store a null character at the end of each word so that il
can be treated as a string.

Modify Programming Project 15 from Chapter 8 so that it includes the following function:
void encrypt (char *message, int shi£ft);

The function expects message to point to a string containing the message to be encrypted;
shift represents the amount by which each letter in the message 1s to be shifted.

Modify Programming Projeet 16 from Chapter 8 so that it includes the following function:
bool are anagrams (const char *wordl, const char *word2) ;

The function returns true if the strings pointed to by word1 and word2 are anagrams.

Modify Programming Project 6 from Chapter 10 so that it includes the following funetion:
int evaluate RPN expression(const char *expression) ;

The function returns the value of thè RPN expression pointed to by expression.

Modify Programming Project ! from Chapter 12 so that it includes the following function:
void reverse (char *message) ;

The function reverses the string pointed to by message. Hint: Use two pointers, one ini-
tially pointine to the first character of the string and the other initially pointing to the last
character. Have the function reverse these characters and then move the pointers toward
each other, repeating the process until the pointers meet.

Modify Programming Projeet 2 from Chapter 12 so that it includes the following l'unction:
bool is palindrome (const char *message) ;

The function returns true if the string pointed to by message is à palindrome.

Write à program that accepts à date from the user in the form nwn/dd/yvyy and then dis-
plays it in the form monrh dd, yvyy. where month is the name of the month:

Enter a date (mm/dd/yvyyy) : 2/17/2011
You entered the date February 17, 2011

Store the month names in an array that contains pointers to strings.
