25.2  Multibyte Characters and Wide Characters 649

Any string may contain multibyte characters, although the length of such a
string (as determined by the strlen function) is the number of bytes in the string,
not the number of characters. In particular, the format strings in calls of the
«print£ and …scan£ functions may contain multibyte characters. As a result.
the C99 standard defines the term multibyre string to be a synonym for string.

Wide Characters

The other way to encode an extended character set is to use wide characters. À
wide character is an integer whose value represents a character. Unlike multibyte
characters, which may vary in length. all wide characters supported by a particular
implementation require the same number of bytes. À wide string is a string con-
sisting of wide characters, with a null wide character at the end. (A null wide char-
acter is a wide character whose numerical value is zero.)

Wide characters have the type wchar_t (declared in <stddef .h> and cer-
tain other headers). which must be an integer type able to represent the largest
extended character set For any supported locale. For example, if two bytes are
enough to represent any extendecl character set, then wchar t could be defined
às unsigned short int.

C supports both wide character constants and wide string literals. Wide char-
acter constants resemble ordinary character constants but are prefixed by the letter
L:

L'a'
Wide string literals are also prefixed by L:
L » abÇ U

This string represents an array containing the wide characters L'a'. L'b*. and
L'c', followed by a null wide character.

Unicode and the Universal Character Set

The differences between multibyte characters and wide characters become appar-
ent when discussing Unicode. Unicode is an enormous character set developed by
the Unicode Consortium, an organization established by a group of computer man-
üfacturers to create an international character set for computer use. The first 256
characters of Unicode are identical to Latin-! (and therefore the first 128 charac-
lers of Unicode match the ASCIT character set). However, Unicode goes far
beyond Latin-], providing the characters needed for nearly all modern and ancient
languages. Unicode also includes a number of specialized symbols. such as those
used in mathematics and music. The Unicode standard was first published in 1991.

Unicode is closely related to international standard ISO/IEC 10646. which
defines a character encoding known as the Universal Character Set (UCS). UCS
was developed by the International Organization for Standardization (1SO). start-
ing at about the same time that Unicode was initially defined. Although UCS orig-
inally differed from Unicode. the two character sets were later unified. ISO now
