312

Chapter 13  Strings

'_J|

atoi function > 26.2

® 6.

10.

[.

Enter number of cards in hand: 5
Your hand:

Seven of clubs

Two of spades

Five of diamonds

Ace of spades

Two of hearts

Hint: Replace rank_code and suit_code by arrays containing pointers to strings.
Write a program named reverse.c that echoes its command-line arguments in reverse
order. Running the program by typing

reverse void and null

should produce the following output:

null and void

Write a program named sum.c that adds up its command-line arguments, which are
assumed to be integers. Running the program by typing

sum 8 24 62

should produce the following output:

Total: 94

Fint: Use the atoi function to convert each command-line argument from string form to

integer form.

Improve the planet . c program of Section 13.7 by having it ignore case when comparing
command-line arguments with strings in the planets array.

Modify Programming Project 11 from Chapter 5 so that it uses arrays containing pointers to
strings instead of switch statements. For example. instead of using a switch statement
to print the word for the first digit. use the digit as an index into an array that contains the
strings "twenty", "thirty". and so forth.

Modify Programming Project 5 from Chapter 7 so that it includes the following funetion:
int compute _scrabble value (const char *word) ;

The function returns the SCRABBLE value of the string pointed to by word.

Modify Programming Project 10 from Chapter 7 so that it includes the following function:
int compute _ vowel count (const char *sentence) ;

The function returns the number of vowels in the string pointed to by the sentence
parameter.

Modify Programming Project 11 from Chapter 7 so that it includes the following function:
void reverse_name (char *name) ;

The function expects name to point to a string containing à first name followed by a last
name. Ît modifies the string so that the last name comes first, followed by a comma. a space.
the first mitial, and à period. The original string may contain extra spaces before the first
name, between the first and tast names, and after the last name.

Modify Programming Project 13 from Chapter 7 so that it includes the following function:
double compute_average_word _ length(const char *sentence) ;

The function returns the average length of the words in the string pointed to by sentence.
