412

Chapter 16  Structures, Unions, and Enumerations

tV
ID

ID

—

6.

Let x and y be int variables. Write a switch statement that tests the value of direc-
tion, incrementing x if direction is EAST. decrementing x if direction 1s WEST,
incrementing y if direction is SOUTH, and decrementing y if direction is NORTH.

What are the integer values of the enumeration constants in cach of the following declara-
tions?

(a) enum {NUL, SOH, STX, ETX};

(b) enum {VT = 11, FF, CR};

(c) enum {SO = 14, SI, DLE, CAN = 24, EM};

(d) enum {ENQ = 45, ACK, BEL, LF = 37, ETB, ESC};

Let chess pieces be the following enumeration:
enum chess pieces {KING, QUEEN, ROOK, BISHOP, KNIGHT, PAWN} ;

(a) Write a declaration (including an initializer) for a constant array of integers named
piece_value that stores the numbers 200, 9, 5, 3. 3, and |.representing the value of each
chess piece, from king to pawn. (The king’s value is actually infinite, since “capturing” the
king (checkmute) ends the game. but some chess-playing software assigns the king a large
value such as 200.)

(b) (C99) Repeat part (a). but use à designated initializer to initialize the array. Use the enu-
meration constants in chess_pieces as subscripts in the designators. (Hinr: Sce the last
question in Q&A for an example.)

Programming Projects

Write à program that asks the user to enter an international dialing code and then looks it up
in the country _codes array (see Section 16.3). IT it finds the code, the program should
display the name of the corresponding country: if not, the program should print an error
message.

Modify the inventory .c program of Section 16.3 so that the p (print) operation displays
the parts sorted by part number.

Modify the inventory.c program of Section 16.3 by making inventory and
num _parts local to the main function.

Modify the inventory.c program of Section 16.3 by adding a price member to the
part structure. The insert f'unction should ask the user for the price of à new ttem. The
search and print functions should display the price. Add a new command that allows
the user to change the price of à part.

Modify Programming Project 8 from Chapter S so that the times are stored in a single array.
The clements of the array will be structures. each containing a departure time and the corre-
sponding arrival time. (Each time will be an integer, representing the number of minutès
since midnight.) The program will use à loop to scarch the array for the departure time clos-
est to the timé entered by the user.

Modify Programming Project 9 from Chapter 5 so that cach date entered by the user is
stored in à date structure (see Exercise 5). Incorporate the compare_dates function of
Exercise 5 into your program.
