672 Chapter 25

Table 25.19
Wide-Character
Classification Functions

wcliype

International Features

 

Function

Test

 

iswalnum (wc)
iswalpha (wc)
iswblank (wc)
iswentrl (wc)
iswdigit (wc)
iswgraph (wc)
iswlower (wc)
iswprint (wec)
iswpunct (wc)
iswspace (wc)
iswupper (wc)

Is wc alphanumeric?

1s wc alphabetic?

Is we a blank?}

[s wc a control character?

[s wc a decimal digit”

Is wc a printing character (other than a space)”
[s wc à lower-case letter?

Is wc a printine character (including a space)?
[s wc punctuation?

[Is wc à white-space character?

[s wC an upper-case letter’

 

 

iswxdigit (wc) Is wc a hexadecimal digit”

 

‘The standard blank wide characters are space (L' ')und horizontal tab
(L'\t').

leaving open the possibility that more than one wide character is considered to be à
“space.” See Appendix D for more detailed descriptions of these functions.

In most cases, the wide-character classification functions are consistent with
the corresponding functions in <ctype.h>: if a <ctype .h> function returns a
nonzero value (indicating ““true”) for à particular character, then the corresponding
<wctype .h> function will return true for the wide version of the same character.
The only exception involves white-space wide characters (other than space) that
are also printing characters, which may be classified differently by iswgraph
and iswpunct than by isgraph and ispunct. For example. a character for
which isgraph returns true may cause iswgraph to return false.

Extensible Wide-Character Classification l’unctions

int iswctype(wint t wc, wctype t desc);
wctype t wctype(const char *property) ;

Each of the wide-character classification functions just discussed is able to test a
single fixed condition. The wctype and iswctype functions—which are de-
signed to be used together—make it possible to test for other conditions as well.

The wctype function is passed a string describing a class of wide characters:
it returns a wctype t value that represents this class. For example. the call

wctype ("upper")

returns a wctype t value representing the class of upper-case letters. The C99
standard requires that the following strines be allowed as arguments to wctype:

"blank"
"punct"

udigitu
‘ upper"

"entrl"
U Space U

"alnum"
"lower"

" 81ph8 "
"pI‘iDt "l

"graph"
"xdigit"

Additional strings may be provided by an implementation. Which strings are legal
arguments lo0 wctype at a given time depends on the LC _ CTYPE category of the
