K.N.KING

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 

 

The first edition of C Progaemenany: À Modevit A p>
vas a mt withr students and faculty alike bécause uf its clarity

and comprehensiveness as well as its trademark Q&A sections.”

Kings spiral approach made the first edition accessible to à
broad range of réaders, from beginners to more acdvanced
students. The first edition was used at over 225 colleges.
making itone ofthe leading C texthooks of the last ten vears.

FEATURES OF THE SECOND EDITION
Coruplete coverage of boththe CS9 standarct nl the C99
standard, withall C99 changes clearlyv marked
Includes à quick reference to all CS9 ancl COO library
functions
lyxpandecd covcrage of GCC
New coverage of abstract data tvpes
(pdated to refleet today's CPUs uul operating systems
Nearly 500 exercises and programming projects—60% more
Hhan mn thie first edition
Source code and solntions to selected exercises and
programming projcets for students, available at the author's
website (Æukèa.com)

l’assword-protected instructor site (also at krkdne.con)

containing solutions to the remaining exercises and projocts,

plus PowerPoint presentations for most chapters

 

   

158N 978-0-393-97950-3

AN

 

  

 

“ thoroughly enjoyed reading the
second edition of C Programming
and | look forward to using it in
future courses.”

— Karen Reid, Senior Lecturer,
Department of Computer Science,
University of Toronto

“The second edition of King's
C Programming improves on an
already impressive base, and is the

} book l'recommend to anyone who

wants to learn-C,”
V

— Peter Seebach, moderator,

comp.lang.c.moderated

   
 

“l'assign C Programming to first-
year engineering students. It is
concise, clear, accessible to the
beginner, and yet also covers all

——

aspects of the language.”

— Professor Markus Bussmann,
Department of Mechanical and
Industrial Engineering, University
of Toronto

 

K. N. KING (Ph.D., University of
California, Berkeley) is an
associate professor of computer
science at Georgia State
University. He is also the author
of Modula-2: A Complete Guide

and Java Programming: From

the Beginning.

 

 
