Section 8.1

Section 8.2

@

ID

9

Exercises 177

memcpy (a, b, sizeof (a)) ;

Many programmers prefer memcopy, especially for large arrays, because it’s poten-
tially faster than an ordinary loop.

Section 6.4 mentioned that C99 doesn°t allow a goto statement to bypass the
declaration of a variable-length array. What’s the reason for this restriction?

The memory used to store a variable-length array is usually allocated when the
declaration of the array is reached during program execution. Bypassing the decla-
ration using a goto statement could result in a program accessing the elements of
an array that was never allocated.

Exercises

We discussed using the expression sizeof (a) / sizeof (a [0] ) to calculate the num-
ber of elements in an array. The expression sizeoË (a) / sizeof (r), where r is the type
of a's elements. would also work, but il’s considered an inferior technique. Why?

The Q&A section shows how to use a letter as an array subscript. Describe how to use a
digit (in character form) as a subscript.

Write a declaration of an array named weekend containing seven bool values. Include an
initializer that makes the first and last values true; all other values should be false.

(C99) Repeat Exercise 3, but this time use a designated initializer. Make the initializer as
short as possible.

The Fibonacci numbers are O. 1. 1. 2. 3. 5. 8, 13, …, where each number is the sum of the
two preceding numbers. Write a program fragment that declares an array named
fib numbers of length 40 and fills the array with the first 40 Fibonacci numbers. Hint:
Fill in the first two numbers individually, then use a loop to compute the remaining num-
bers.

Calculators, watches, and other electronic devices often rely on seven-segment displays for
numerical output. To form a digit, such devices “turn on” some of the seven segments while
leaving others “off””:

Suppose that we want to set up an array that remembers which segments should be “on” for
each digit. Let’s number the segments as follows:

L
5 ê_|1
s| , [2
Here’s what the array might look like, with each row representing one digit:

const int segments[10] [7] = {{1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, O}, —}:

l’ve given you the first row of the initializer; fill in the rest.
