158

Chapter 7  Basic Types

® 5.

tO.

ll.

12.

In the SCRABBLE Crossword Game, players form words using small tiles, each containing
à letter and a face value. The face value varies from onc letter to another, based on the let-
ter’s rarity. (Here are the face values: |: AEILNORSTU, 2: DG, 3: BCMP, 4: FHVWY, 5: K.
8: JX, 10: QZ.) Write a program that computes the value of à word by summing the values
of its letters:

Enter a word: pitfall
Scrabble value: 12

Your program should allow any mixture of lower-case and upper-case letters in the word.
Hint: Use the toupper library function.

Write a program that prints the values of sizeof (int). sizeof (short).
sizeoËf (long), sizeof (£loat), sizeof (double) and sizeof (long dou-
ble).

Modify Programming Project 6 from Chapter 3 so thut the user may add, subtract. multiply,
or divide two fractions (by entering either +, -. *. or / between the fractions).

Modify Programming Project 8 from Chapter 5 so that the user enters a time using the 12-
hour clock. The input will have the form hours : minutes followed by either A, P, AM, or PM
(either lower-case or upper-case). White space is allowed (but not required) between the
numerical time and the AM/PM indicator. Examples of valid input:

1:15P

:15PM
:15p

:15pm
:15 P
:15 PM
:15 p
:15 pm

HHHHHeu

You may assume that the input has one of these forms; there is no need to test for errors.
Write a program that asks the user for a 12-hour time, then displays the time in 24-hour
form:

Enter a 12-hour time: 9:11 PM
Equivalent 24-hour time: 21:11

See Programming Project 8 for a description of the input format.

Write a program that counts the number of vowels (a, e, i, o, and u) in à sentence:

Enter a sentence: And that's the way it is.
Your sentence contains 6 vowels.

 

Write a program that takes a first name and last name entered by the user and displays the
last name, a comma, and the first initial, followed by a period:

Enter a first and last name: LIloyd Fosdick
Fosdick, L.

 

The user's input may contain extra spaces before the first name, between the first and last
names, and after the last name.
Write à program that evaluates an expression:

Enter an expression: 1+2.5*3
Value of expression: 10.5
