136

Chapter 7  Basic Types

QaAÀ

portability tip

enumerated types > 16.5

æ

_Bool type »5.2

On the other hand, treating characters as numbers can lead to various programmine
errors that won't be caught by the compiler, and lets us write meaningless expres-
sions such as 'a' * 'b' / 'c'. t can also hamper portability. since our pro-
grams may be based on assumptions about the underlying character set. (Our for
loop, for example, assumes that the letters from À to Z have consecutive codes.)

Signed and Unsigned Characters

Since C allows characters to be used as integers, it shouldn’t be surprising that the
char type—like the integer types—exists in both signed and unsigned versions.
Signed characters normally have values between —128 and 127. while unsigned
characters have values between O and 255.

The C standard doesn't specify whether ordinary char is a signed or an
unsigned type; some compilers treat it as a signed type. while others treat it as an
unsigned type. (Some even allow the programmer to select, via a compiler option,
whether char should be signed or unsigned.)

Most of the time, we don’t really care whether char is signed or unsigned.
Once in a while, though. we do. especially if we're using a character variable to
store a small integer. For this reason, C allows the use of the words signed and
unsigned to modify char:

signed char sch;
unsigned char uch;

Don't assume that char is either signed or unsigned by default. If it mat-
ters, use signed char or unsigned char ‘nstead of char.

In light of the close relationship between characters and integers, C89 uses the
term integral types to refer to both the integer types and the character types. Enu-
merated types are also integral types.

C99 doesn't use the term ‘’integral types.” Instead, it expands the meaning of
“integer types” to include the character types and the enumerated types. C99’s
_Bool type 1s considered to be an unsigned integer type.

Arithmetic Types

The integer types and floating types are collectively known as arithmetic types.
Here's a summary of the arithmetic types in C89, divided into categories and sub-
categories:

m Intecral types
e char
e Signed integer types (signed char, short int, int. long int)

e Unsigned integer types (unsigned char, unsigned short int.
unsigned int, unsigned long int)
