Table 22.4
Flags for …print£
Functions

22.3  Formatted I/0 553

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conversion
flags precision … specifier
Ÿ Ÿ Y
3|#0|112/.5/L|g
! |
minimum length

field width modifier

Here’s a detailed description of these items, which must appear in the order shown:

e Flags (optional; more than one permitted). The - flag causes left justification
within à field; the other fMags affect the way numbers are displayed. Table 22.4
gives a complete list of flags.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Flag Meaning |

- Left-justify within field. (The default 1s right justification.)

+ Numbers produced by signed conversions always begin with + or -. (Normally,
only negative nuinbers are preceded by à sign.) |

space … Nonnegative numbers produced by signed conversions are preceded by a space.
(The + flag overrides the space flag.)

# Octal numbers begin with 0, nonzero hexadecimal numbers with Ox or OX.
Floatine-point numbers always have a decimal point. Trailing Zeros aren’1
removed from numbers printed with the g or G conversions.

0 Numbers are padded with leading zeros up to the field width. The O flag 1s

(zero) — ignored if the conversion 1s d. i, O, u, x, or X and a precision is specified. (The

- flag overrides the O flag.)

 

= Minimum field width (optional). An item thal’s too small to occupy this num-
ber of characters will be padded. (By default, spaces are added to the left of
the item, thüs right-justifvine it within the field.) An item that’s too large for
the field width will still be displayed in its entirety. The field width 1s either an
integer or the character *. IF * 1s present, the field width 1s obtained from the
next argument. If this argument 1s negative. 1s treated as a positive number
preceded by a - flag.

u Precision (optonal). The meaning of the precision depends on the conversion:

d. i, O, u, X. X: minimum number of digits

(leading zeros are added 1f the number has fewer digits)

a, À, e, E, f, F: number of digits after the decimal point

q, G: number of significant digits
s: maximum number of bytes

The precision ts a period (. ) followed by an integer or the character *. If * 1s
present, the precision 1s obtained from the next areument. (1f this argument 1s
negative, the effect is the same as not specifying a precision.) IF only the
period 1s present, the precision 1s Zero.
