582 Chapter 22

Section 22.1

Section 22.2

Section 22.3

Q:

À:

® 2

@ 4

Input/Output

Why doesn°t this chapter discuss screen control: moving the cursor, changing
the colors of characters on the screen, and so on?

C provides no standard functions for screen control. The C standard addresses only
issues that can reasonably be standardized across a wide range of computers and
operating systems; screen control is outside this realm. The customary way to
solve this problem in UNIX 1s to use the curses library, which supports screen
control in a terminal-independent manner.

Similarly, there are no standard functions for building programs with a graphi-
cal user interface. However, you can most likely use C function calls to access the
windowing API (application programming interface) for your operating system.

Exercises

Indicate whether each of the following files is more likcly to contain text data or binary
data:

(a) À file of object code produced by a C compiler

(b) À program listing produced by à C compiler

(c) An email message sent from one computer to another
(d) À file containing a graphics image

Indicate which mode string is most likely to be passed to £open in each of the following
situations:
(a) À database management system opens a file containing records to be updated.

(b) À mail program opens a file of saved messages so that it can add additional messages to
the end.

(c) À graphics program opens a file containing a picture to be displayed on the screen.

(d) An operating system command interpreter opens a “shell script” (or “batch file”) con-
taining commands to be executed.

Find the error in the following program fragment and show how to fix it.
FILE *fp;

if (fp = fopen(filename, "r")) {
read characters until end-of-file
)

Éclose (fp) ;

Show how each of the following numbers will look if displayed by printf with
%#012 .5g as the conversion specification:

(a) 83.7361

(b) 29748.6607
(c) 1054932234.0
(d) 0.0000235218

Js there any difference between the printf conversion specifications % . 4d and %04d? If
so, explain what it is.
