Table 22.6
Conversion Specifiers for
…print£ Functions

æ

greatest-width integers >27,7

22.3  Formatted I/0 555

 

Conversion
Specifier

iMeaning

 

d,i

Converts an int value to decimail form.

 

o,u,.x, X

Converts an unsigned int value to base 8 (0o). base ! (u). or base 16
(x, X). x displays the hexadecimal digits a—£ in lower case: X displays
them in upper case,

 

f, F!

Converts à double vulue to decimal form, putting the decimal point in
the correct position. If no precision 1s specified, displays six digits after
the decimal point.

 

e E

Converts a double value to scientific notation. If no precision is speci- |
fied, displays sIx digits after the decimal point. If @ 1s chosen. the expo-
nent is preceded by the letter e; if E 1s chosen, the exponent is preceded

by E.

 

g. G

g converts a double value to cither £ form or e form. € forin is selected
if the number’s exponent 1s less than — or greater than or equal to the
precision. Trailing zeros are not displayed (unless the # fag 1s used); a
decimal point appears only when followed by à digit. G chooses between
F and E forms.

 

Converts a double value to hexadecimal scientific notation using the
form [-]0xA.hhhhpxd, where [-] 1s an optional minus sign, the hs rep-
resent hex digits, + 1s either à plus or minus sign, and d is the exponent. d
is a decimal number that represents a power of 2. If no precision is speci-
filed. enough digits are displayed after the decimal point to represent the
exact value of the number (1f possible). à displays the hex digits a—£ in
lower case; A displays them in upper case. The choice of à or À also
affects the case of the letters x and p.

 

Displays an int value as an unsigned character.

 

Writes the characters pointed to by the argument. Stops writing when the
number of bytes specified by the precision (1f present) 1s reached or a null
character is encountered.

 

"O

Converts a void * value to printable form.

 

J

The corresponding argument must point to an object of type int. Stores
in this object the number of characters written so far by this call of
…printÉ; produces no output.

 

°
<

 

Writes the character %.

 

*C99 only

C99 Changes to ….print£ Conversion Specifications

The conversion specifications for print£ and fprint£ have undergone à num-
ber of changes in C99:

= Additional length modifiers. C99 adds the hh. 11, j, z, and t leneth modifi-
ers. hh and 11 provide additional length options, j allows greatest-width inte-
gers to be written. and z and t make it easier to write values of type size t
and ptrdif£ t, respectively.
