56

Chapter 4  Expressions

table of operators » Appendix A

PROGRAM

of the operators comes into play. An operator is said to be left associative if it groups
from left to right. The binary arithmetic operators (*, /, %, +, and -) are all left asso-
ciative, SO

i - j - k is equivalentto (i - j) - k
i * yj /XK isequivalentto (i * j) / K

An operator 1s right associative if it groups from right to left. The unary arithmetic
operators (+ and -) are both right associative, so

- +i is equivalentto -(+i)

Precedence and associativity rules are important in many languages, but espe-
cially so in C. However, C has so many operators (almost fifty!) that few program-
mers bother to memorize the precedence and associativity rules. Instead, they
consult a table of operators when in doubt or just use plenty of parentheses.

Computing a UPC Check Digit

For a number of years. manufacturers of goods sold in U.S. and Canadian stores
have put a bar code on each product. This code, known as a Universal Product
Code (UPC), identifies both the manufacturer and the product. Each bar code rep-
resents a {welve-digit number, which is usually printed underneath the bars. For
example, the following bar code comes from a package of Stouffer's French Bread

Pepperoni Pizza:

0°°13800'15173"" s

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fhe digits
O 13800 15173 5

appear underneath the bar code. The first digit identifies the type of item (O or 7
for most items, 2 for items that must be weighed, 3 for drugs and health-related
merchandise, and S for coupons). The first group of five digits identifies the manu-
facturer (13800 is the code for Nestlé USA's Frozen Food Division). The second
group of five digits identifies the product (including package size). The final digit
Is a “check digit.” whose only purpose is to help identify an error in the preceding
chgits. If the UPC is scanned incorrectly, the first !! digits probably won'1 be con-
sistent with the last digit, and the store’s scanner will reject the entire code.
Here’s one method of computing the check digit:

Add the first, third, fifth, seventh, ninth, and eleventh digits.
Add the second, fourth, sixth, eighth, and tenth digits.

 
