exp2
expm1

logb
iIlogb

log1p
log2

scalbn
scalblin

cbrt

 

23.4  The <math.h> Header (C99): Mathematics 605

double scalbn (double x, int n);

float scalbnf (float x, int n);

long double scalbnl (long double x, int n);
double scalbln (double x, long int n);

float scalbln£ (float x, long int n);

long double scalblnl{(long double x, long int n);

In additional to new versions of exp, frexp., 1dexp, log. log10, and modf,
there are several entirely new functions in this category. Two of these, exp2 and
expml, are variations on the exp function. When applied to the argument x, the
exp2 function returns 2*. and expm1 returns e* — 1.

The 1logb lf'unction returns the exponent of its argument. More precisely. the
call 1ogb (x) returns log (Ixl), where » is the radix of floating-point arithmetic
(defined by the macro FLT_RADIX. which typically has the value 2). The ilogb
function returns the value of 10gb after it has been cast to int type. The 1og1p
function returns In(! + x) when given x as its argument. The 10og2 function com-
putes the base-2 logarithm of its argument.

The scalbn function returns x x FLT RADIX", which it computes in an
efficient way (not by explicitly raising FLT RADIX to the nth power). scalbln
is the same as scalbn, except that its second parameter has type long int
instead of int.

Power and Absolute Value Functions

double cbrt (double x) ;
float cbrtf(float x);
long double cbrtl (long double x);

float fabs£ (float x); see fabs
long double fabsl (long double x); see fabs

double hypot (double x, double y);
float hypotf (float x, float y);
Jong double hypotl(long double x, long double y);

float powf (float x, float y); see pow
long double powl (long double x,

long double y); see pow
float sqrtf(float x); see sqrt
Jong double sgrtl (long double x) ; see sqrt

Several functions in this group are new versions of old ones (fabs, pow, and
sqrt). Only the functions cbrt and hypot (and their variants) are entirely new.

The cbrt function computes the cube root of its argument. The pow function
can also be used for this purpose, but pow is unable to handle negative arguments
