Section 16.5

@ 14.

© |5.

16.

18.

19.

20.

 

Exercises 411

Let shape be the structure tag declared in Exercise 13. Write functions that perform the
lollowing operations on a shape structure s passed as an argument:
(a) Compute the area of s.

(b) Move s by x units in the x direction and y units in the y direction, returning the modi-
fied version of s. (x and y are additional arguments to the function.)

(c) Scale s by a factor of c (a double value), returning the modified version of s. (c is an
udditional argument to the funetion.)

(a) Declare a tag for an enumeration whose values represent the seven days of the week.

(b) Use typedef to define a name for the enumeration of part (a).

Which of the following statements about enumeration constants are true?

(a) An enumeration constant may represent any integer specified by the programmer.

(b) Enumeration constants have exactly the same properties as constants created using
#define.

(c) Enumeration constants have the values O, 1. 2, … by default.
(d) AlI constants in an enumeration must have different values.
(e) Enumeration constants may be used as integers in expressions.

Suppose that b and i are declared as follows:

enum {FALSE, TRUE} b;

int i;

Which of the following statements are legal? Which ones are “safc” (always yield a mean-
ingful result)?

(a) b = FALSE;

(b) b = i;
(c) b++;
(d) i = b;

(e) ài = 2 * b + 1;

(a) Each square of a chessboard can hold one piece—a pawn. knight, bishop. rook. queen.
or king—or it may be empty. Each piece is either black or white. Define two enumerated
types: Piece, which has seven possible values (one of which is “empty”). and Color,
which has two.

(b) Using the types from part (a), define a structure type named Square that can store both
the type of a piece and its color.

(c) Using the Square type from part (b), declare an 8 x 8 array named board that can
Storc the entire contents of a chessboard.

(d) Add an initializer to the declaration in part (c) so that board's initial value corresponds
to the usual arrangement of pieces at the start of a chess game. À square that's not occupied
by à picce should have an “empty” piece value and the color black.

Declare à structure with the following members whose tag is pinball machine:

name — a string of up to 40 characters

year — an integer (representing the year of manufacture)

type — an enumeration with the values EM (electromechanical) and SS (solid state)
players — an integer (representing the maximum number of players)

Suppose that the direction variable is declared in the following way:
enum {NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST} direction;
