Exercises 373

Q: The chapter says that a shared array should be declared as follows:
extern int al];
Since arrays and pointers are closely related, would it be legal to write
extern int *a;

instead? [p. 356]

A: No. When used in expressions, arrays “decay” into pointers. (We've noticed this
behavior when an array name is used as an argument in a function call.) In variable
declarations. however, arrays and pointers are distinct types.

Q: Does it hurt if a source file includes headers that it doesn’t really need?

A: Not unless the header has à declaration or definition that conflicts with one in the
source file. Otherwise, the worst that can happen is à minor increase in the time it
takes to compile the source file.

Q: 1 needed to call a function in the file foo.c, so ! included the matching
header file, foo.h. My program compiled, but it won°t link. Why?

“A: Compilation and linking are completely separate in C. Header files exist to provide
information to the compiler. not the linker. IF you want to call à function in foo . c,
then you have to make sure that Foo.c is compiled and that the linker is aware
that it must search the abject file for foo.c to find the function. Usually this
means naming foo. c in the program's makefile or project file.

Q: If my program calls a function in <stdio .h>, docs that mean that all funce-
tions in <stdio.h> will be linked with the program?

A: No. Including <stdio.h> (orany other header) has no effect on linking. In any
event. most linkers will link only functions that your program actually needs.

Q: Where can I get the make utility? [p. 367]
Â

make is a standard UNIX utility. The GNU version. known as GNU Make, 1s
included in most Linux distributions. lt's also available directly from the Free Soft-
ware Foundation (Guwu:gniorg/software/make/).

Exercises

Section 15.1 |.  Section 5.1 listed several advantages of dividing à program into multiple souree files.
(a) Describe several other advantages.
(b) Describe some disadvantages.

Section 15.2 @ 2 Which of the following should not be put in a header file? Why not?
(a) Function prototypes
(b) Function definitions
